JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
Here we go.
Mr. Lewis, how do you feel
about roller coasters?
PAUL LEWIS: Oh, I
like them. (SINGING)
Roller coaster of love.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Let's roll.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I've got to bone
to pick with you.
PAUL LEWIS: Oh, that's unusual.
We normally get on just fine.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, because
I've been watching you--
PAUL LEWIS: Oh.
That's a bit weird.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I
noticed that you've
been engaging in some
degree of Babel activity.
PAUL LEWIS: Oh.
Thank goodness for that.
OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You've been
using a bit of the ES6, ES7.
PAUL LEWIS: Not quite
as terrifying as I
thought it might have been.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But you-- you're
the kind of person who says--
and I've heard you
say this-- that you
don't like writing code that
isn't the code that ends up
being executed in the browser.
PAUL LEWIS: Correct.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: That you don't
like those little middle steps.
You're kind of anti-transpiler.
PAUL LEWIS: I am sort
of anti-transpiler.
I want to feel like the code
I write is the code that runs.
And I'm happy for a
little bit of wool
to be pulled over
my eyes, but I want
to feel like I can
back out of it.
So I don't think that's changed.
For me, when I look at
something like Babel or Babel E5
or any of that, one thing is I
feel like I could switch it out
for [INAUDIBLE] or I
could switch it out
for something else.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Because
it's an open standard,
I guess there are
independent implementations
of that standard.
PAUL LEWIS: Exactly.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh, OK.
Yeah, that's fair.
PAUL LEWIS: So it
feels like this
is the JavaScript I'm
going to be writing,
right, a while from now.
So it's like if it's going to
get me there, then that's fine.
I'm OK with that.
And then the other thing
is if you look at the ES5
that it generates,
it makes sense.
It's fine.
And I feel like when you
look at some other things,
whether, I don't know,
CoffeeScript or TypeScript,
something like
that, you can never
say that because you're always
going to be transpiling across.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I had
this issue actually.
I was using a project, MPM,
installing something, using it.
And there was a bug.
And I thought, as a
citizen of the internet,
I am going to do a pull request.
I'm going to try and fix that.
PAUL LEWIS: A gift.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
And when I got onto GitHub,
and click, click, click,
CoffeeScript.
PAUL LEWIS: Oh.
OK.
Yeah, no.
Bye bye.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Now step
one of making this fix
is learn CoffeeScript.
PAUL LEWIS: And it's like
unless I really, really care
about fixing the bug, it's not.
For me, it's like JavaScript has
become ES6, ES7, ES whatever.
But like you say,
this kind of, let's
learn TypeScript or
CoffeeScript or anything else,
I've got to really
want to go off and do
that for some reason.
And I don't see what that
reason is because JavaScript
for me for everything is fine.
I actually really
liked Babel if,
for no other reason, that its
source maps were just super.
So even though I wasn't
really aiming for that,
when I did get an error, it was
like whatever.js line whatever.
And it was like, yeah,
that is the correct line.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
even if you're not
using source maps
with Babel, the output
is actually pretty
sensible for the most part.
But as you say, source maps just
make it completely transparent.
It's almost like you're not
using a transpiler at all.
PAUL LEWIS: Exactly.
So I'm happy with
the illusion of it,
I think, is probably
what it comes down to.
But, as I say, you're right.
If you look at the
actual code it generates,
for me, I was just like, yeah,
that's not necessarily code
I'd write, but that's OK.
It's just about
manageable and readable.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So go on, then.
What are your big
hitters in ES6 and 7?
What's your faves of these?
PAUL LEWIS: My faves.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Your faves.
PAUL LEWIS: A contentious
one would be classes.
I actually really like classes.
Because people are like, what's
wrong with the prototype?
You're turning your
back on prototype.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You're
still using the prototype.
It's just sugar.
PAUL LEWIS: Yes, exactly, but
nice sugar at that-- very nice.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, because--
PAUL LEWIS: Refined sugar.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: If I'm doing
something.prototype equals
object.create, the
thing I'm extending,
and I keep forgetting the
.prototype on the end there.
PAUL LEWIS: But
that's one of about--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's
really difficult.
It's really awkward
compared to class
of thing [INAUDIBLE] thing.
PAUL LEWIS: That's the
one way you do it in ES6.
With ES5, you've got 11 billion
ways of doing it and not
all of them are good
necessarily, or readable,
or what you want
to see if you're
looking at your
own code six months
from now or somebody
else's code.
So it kind of felt
like it was more
like the code I
want to write, more
like the code I want to read.
It's where we're going.
It's a feature.
It's not like somebody just
went off piece and did something
that they wanted to do.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
I can barely remember
how to spell "function" now.
You've got within
an object, it's just
the name, brackets, off you go.
There's arrow.
PAUL LEWIS: Fat
arrow function was
something else I really liked.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
A little bit of fat arrow.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah.
Because a number of times I
use RequestAnimationFrame,
setTimeout, setIntervals,
something like that.
And it's like, oh,
all of a sudden, I'm
on the Windows scope, am I?
Thanks for that.
So bind.
And it's like, meh, don't worry.
I mean, I don't mind binding.
It's better than var
that equals this for me.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I don't--
PAUL LEWIS: You don't like that.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No, don't
do that equals this.
But I will give it a specific,
proper variable name.
PAUL LEWIS: Like what?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's based
on the name of the class.
PAUL LEWIS: J key this,
var j key this equals--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: If
it's class vehicle,
inside that, I
will do var vehicle
equals this, like lowercase
vehicle equals this.
And it's-- yeah, but
it makes sense then.
I don't like that
because it's like, well,
that's just-- because this is a
problem in JavaScript, I think.
So this what?
And that's one of the things
that arrow functions solve is
there tends to only be one
option for what the this is,
and it's the instance name.
That makes way more sense.
PAUL LEWIS: So it works for me.
I really like--
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Destructuring I like.
PAUL LEWIS: Beautiful.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Especially
for option objects.
PAUL LEWIS: Yes.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --at
the end of a function.
PAUL LEWIS: With
defaults, right?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: This is it.
It becomes self documenting.
You can say, this is optional.
But inside this object, here are
the properties I'm looking for,
and here are their defaults.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah.
But in any case, I
feel like, going back
to your original
question, the reason
I would use a transpiler
today is if and only
if it lets me experience
the future now,
get used to the future now.
I think it's where we're going.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Which
you get with source maps.
It feels like you can almost
ignore the transpiler stuff.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah, exactly.
And as I say, the code that it
generates makes sense to me.
So I'm all up for that.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yay
for transpilers.
PAUL LEWIS: Yay.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Cheers.
We need beers.
[MUSIC PLAYING]